Add ERC: Sovereign Bridged Token (#89)
ethereum/ERCs: ERCS/erc-7281.md

---
eip: 7281
title: Sovereign Bridged Token
description: An interface for creating fungible representations of tokens bridged across domains.
author: Shaito (@0xShaito), Excalibor (@excaliborr), Arjun Bhuptani (@arjunbhuptani)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-7281-sovereign-bridged-tokens/14979
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2023-06-27
requires: 20
---

## Abstract

> This proposal defines a minimal extension to [ERC-20](../EIPS/eip-20.md) (affectionately called `XERC20`) that enables bridging tokens across domains without creating multiple infungible representations of the same underlying asset. It introduces the concept of a Lockbox to allow existing tokens to comply with the specification through a familiar wrapping mechanism and exposes new interfaces that allow token issuers to apply custom risk profiles at a per bridge per domain granularity. 

Reviewer: This is better! I'd still like to see a bit more detail on what a "Lockbox" is here, but you can work on that after you get merged as Draft.

However, even if bridges were all allowed to mint the same representation tokens on a remote domain, there is still an issue. On the home domain, token liquidity is locked and custodied across multiple bridges. To illustrate this problem, consider an example where two bridges control minting rights of canonical USDT on an L2:

![](../assets/eip-7281/fragmentation.png)

- Alice bridges 100 USDT from L1→L2 through Bridge 1. The underlying L1 USDT tokens is locked in Bridge 1 and 100 USDT is minted on L2.
- Bob bridges 100 USDT from L1→L2 through Bridge 2. Similarly, the underlying L1 USDT tokens are locked in Bridge 2 and 100 USDT is minted on L2.
- Suppose Alice pays Bob her 100 USDT on L2. Bob now has 200 USDT.
- Bob attempts to bridge the 200 USDT from L2→L1 through Bridge 2. This transaction fails because Bridge 2 only has 100 USDT custodied that it can give to Bob.

> The core property that this example illustrates is that locking tokens across multiple bridges on the token’s home domain makes it impossible to have fungibility without impeding user experience on remote domains. Minting or burning the token can solve this problem, but not all `ERC20` tokens implement a configurable mint/burn interface. 

Reviewer: Since you aren't talking about the interface, and are instead talking about the standard as a whole, don't use backticks:

```suggestion
The core property that this example illustrates is that locking tokens across multiple bridges on the token’s home domain makes it impossible to have fungibility without impeding user experience on remote domains. Minting or burning the token can solve this problem, but not all [ERC-20](./eip-20.md) tokens implement a configurable mint/burn interface. 
```

If you tick the "Allow edits from maintainers" checkbox on the pull request, I can apply these minor edits for you.

- Token issuer multi-bridge implementations, e.g. Angle protocol, Frax Ferry, and Threshold Network’s tBTC. These examples solve for some or all of the above desiderata and can be applied more broadly to all tokens if coupled with minor additions for compatibility with existing deployed tokens.

## Specification

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 and RFC 8174.

### Overview

The system proposed below has two main components:

- A standard interface for bridged tokens
- A wrapper (aka “Lockbox”) that allows existing tokens to adopt the above interface

### Token Interface

All `XERC20` tokens MUST implement the standard `ERC20` interface. Note that while many of the below functions are inspired by [ERC-777](./erc-777.md), implementers are NOT REQUIRED to adhere to the full [ERC-777](./erc-777.md) specification.

All `XERC20` tokens MUST implement the following interface.

> ```ts

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```solidity
````

   *
   * @param _bridge The bridge we are viewing the limits of
   * @return _limit The limit the bridge has
   */

  function mintingCurrentLimitOf(address _bridge) external view returns (uint256 _limit);

  /**
   * @notice Returns the current limit of a bridge
   *
   * @param _bridge the bridge we are viewing the limits of
   * @return _limit The limit the bridge has
   */

  function burningCurrentLimitOf(address _bridge) external view returns (uint256 _limit);

  /**
   * @notice Mints tokens for a user
   * @dev Can only be called by a bridge
   * @param _user The address of the user who needs tokens minted
   * @param _amount The amount of tokens being minted
   */

  function mint(address _user, uint256 _amount) external;

  /**
   * @notice Burns tokens for a user
   * @dev Can only be called by a bridge
   * @param _user The address of the user who needs tokens burned
   * @param _amount The amount of tokens being burned
   */

  function burn(address _user, uint256 _amount) external;
}
```

Implementations MUST additionally satisfy the following requirements:

- `mint` MUST check that the caller's current available `limit` is greater than or equal to `_amount`

> - `mint` MUST increase the supply of the underlying `ERC20` by `_amount` and reduce the current available `limit`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `mint` MUST increase the supply of the underlying ERC-20 token by `_amount` and reduce the current available `limit`
```

- `burn` MUST check that the caller's current available `limit` is greater than or equal to `_amount`

> - `burn` MUST decrease the supply of the underlying `ERC20` by `_amount` and reduce the current available `limit`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `burn` MUST decrease the supply of the underlying ERC-20 token by `_amount` and reduce the current available `limit`
```

### Lockbox

> The lockbox tries to emulate the WETH contract interface as much as possible. Lockboxes MUST implement the following interface:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lockboxes MUST implement the following interface:
```

The removed sentence belongs in the Rationale section.

> ```ts

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```solidity
````

interface IXERC20Lockbox {
  /**
   * @notice Emitted when tokens are deposited into the lockbox
   */

  event Deposit(address _sender, uint256 _amount);

  /**
   * @notice Emitted when tokens are withdrawn from the lockbox
   */

  event Withdraw(address _sender, uint256 _amount);

  /**
   * @notice Reverts when a user tries to deposit native tokens on a non-native lockbox
   */

  error IXERC20Lockbox_NotNative();

  /**
   * @notice Reverts when a user tries to deposit non-native tokens on a native lockbox
   */

  error IXERC20Lockbox_Native();

  /**
   * @notice Reverts when a user tries to withdraw and the call fails
   */

  error IXERC20Lockbox_WithdrawFailed();

  /**
   * @notice Deposit `ERC20` tokens into the lockbox
   *
   * @param _amount The amount of tokens to deposit
   */

  function deposit(uint256 _amount) external;

  /**
   * @notice Withdraw `ERC20` tokens from the lockbox
   *
   * @param _amount The amount of tokens to withdraw
   */

  function withdraw(uint256 _amount) external;
}
```

> Lockboxes SHOULD additionally implement the following alternative `deposit` function for native (non-`ERC20`) assets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lockboxes SHOULD additionally implement the following alternative `deposit` function for native (non-ERC-20) assets.
```

> ```ts

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```solidity
````

1. Tokens received at the destination should be the canonical tokens.
2. Bridges should not need to bootstrap liquidity for each new chain and asset.
3. Cross-domain interactions involving tokens should be slippage-free, simplifying composability.
4. Token issuers should own decision-making around which bridges to support and be able to parametrize risk for each. They should not be locked into only supporting a single bridge.

### Lockbox

This proposal specifically solves for the above problem in cases where tokens do not already have a mint/burn interface. Tokens on the source chain are locked into a Lockbox, which mints corresponding `XERC20`-compatible tokens that can be sent to bridges.

![](../assets/eip-7281/XERC20.png)

1. A given `ERC20` is wrapped into its `XERC20` representation.
2. The `XERC20` can then be transferred to any approved bridge. The bridge should check rate limits for the token and then `burn` the token.
3. On the target domain, the bridge then similarly `mint`s the token.
4. When transferring back to the home chain, the `XERC20` can be unwrapped back into the original `ERC20` token.

> Using this mechanism, the underlying `ERC20` token is consolidated to the Lockbox contract, and shared across all supported bridges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using this mechanism, the underlying ERC-20 token is consolidated to the Lockbox contract, and shared across all supported bridges.
```

2. With slippage-free `XERC20` transfers, aggregators can know precisely how many tokens will get bridged across chains, eliminating headaches and custom code around sourcing destination-chain liquidity from DEXes. This massively improves pricing for users and composability for developers who want to build across chains.

## Backwards Compatibility

> This proposal is fully backwards compatible with `ERC20`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This proposal is fully backwards compatible with ERC-20.
```

- **3rd party bridges:** every 3rd party bridge that relies on messaging infrastructure already supports a mint and burn interface and has a pathway to map custom minted tokens.
- **Arbitrum rollup bridge:**  Arbitrum allows token issuers to write a custom gateway
- **OP Stack bridge:** Optimism supports adding a custom bridge
- **Polygon PoS bridge:** Polygon supports custom tokens through their fx portal
- **ZkSync bridge**: Zksync supports custom bridges of any kind
- **GnosisChain Omnibridge:** GnosisChain does not currently support custom tokens, but is in the process of redesigning their omnibridge and plans to allow this functionality.

Note: In most of the above cases, a custom bridge integration also means integration into canonical bridge UIs, ensuring that users have a consistent experience throughout the process. Additionally, a single `XERC20` custom bridge implementation could be built for each ecosystem and serve any number of token issuers.

## Security Considerations

> Please see the associated discussion in the **Rationale** section.

Reviewer: A reader coming to this document to specifically find security considerations won't really benefit from this sentence. Security considerations should be in this section.

---
eip: 7281
title: Sovereign Bridged Token
description: An interface for creating fungible representations of tokens bridged across domains.
author: Shaito (@0xShaito), Excalibor (@excaliborr), Arjun Bhuptani (@arjunbhuptani)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-7281-sovereign-bridged-tokens/14979
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2023-06-27
requires: 20
---

## Abstract

> This proposal defines a minimal extension to [ERC-20](../EIPS/eip-20.md) (affectionately called `XERC20`) that enables bridging tokens across domains without creating multiple infungible representations of the same underlying asset. It introduces the concept of a Lockbox to allow existing tokens to comply with the specification through a familiar wrapping mechanism and exposes new interfaces that allow token issuers to apply custom risk profiles at a per bridge per domain granularity. 

Reviewer: > `XERC20`

Technically you're only supposed to put code in backticks. If you changed your interface name to just `XERC20`, then you could have your name and satisfy the rule.
